#### Table of Contents

- [2025](#2025)
  - [Apri](#apri)
    - [Buiild a Culture of Reproducibility in Academic Research](#buiild-a-culture-of-reproducibility-in-academic-research)
    - [DRAMA: Diverse Augmentation from Large Language Models to Smaller Dense Retrievers](#drama-diverse-augmentation-from-large-language-models-to-smaller-dense-retrievers)

# 2025

## Apri

### [Buiild a Culture of Reproducibility in Academic Research](https://arxiv.org/abs/2212.13534)

1. BERT was not developed in a **vacuum**
2. when aspirations meet the **cold hard reality of the academic grind**, reproducibility often "**loses out**".
3. I share some experiences **grappling with** how to **operationalize** reproducibility while balancing its demands against other priorities.
4. MY research group has had some success building a "culture of reproducibility" over the past few years, which I attempt to **distill** it into **lessons learned and actionable advice**.
5. In my experience, reproducibility is an ideal that no researcher would dispute "**in the abstract**": **like puppies, kittens, and rainbows**.
6. We are **falling short**
7. Computational notebooks are often **touted** as a solution to reproducibility because of their searchable and self-contained documenting nature.
8. The truth is that while reproducibility is the noble goal, it is aspirational, not obligatory.
9. Engineering social cycle processes to promote virtuous cycles and build standarized tools to reduce technical barieers.
10. The first point talkes the incentive structure of "why should I do this?"
11. Although much of what I write does not really apply to** employees in a corporate context**, some lessons can still be adapted.
12. Reproducible and replicable findings increase the **veracity** of the **underlying scienticfic claims**.
13. reproduciblity within the** broad umbrella of** data management and stewardship.
14. If science is metaphorically the process of standing on the shoulder of giants in order to see further, reproducibility and replicability are the process by which we test the stability of those shoulders we are attempting to climb on.
15. The (sad) truth is that reproducibility often takes a back seat.
16. Prioritize reproducibility over perfect code; messy code shouldn't block open sourcing.
17. It's difficult to tell if a researcher is using this line as an excuse or if it's utterecd in a good faith.
18. The toolkit handles much of the boilerplate.
19. Down the road, when it is time to write up the thesis, there is no need to "dust off" the code to make sure it "still works".
20. I cannot applaud his efforts on this front enough.

### [DRAMA: Diverse Augmentation from Large Language Models to Smaller Dense Retrievers](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.18460)
21. An explanation- or text-generating model is trained **in tandem** with the prediction model.